Instructions installation HiSPARC software version 9.13.1 (October 2018)

The installation can only be carried out by a user with 'administrator'-rights!

The software installation has only been tested on PCs running a clean version of Windows 10 and 64 bits architectures!
Do not try to install under previous versions of Windows; we will not provide any support for this!

To avoid problems:

- use only a 'clean' Windows 10 installation
- Do not install any other software prior to installing HiSPARC software.
- Advice: replace Windows Internet Explorer by something like Mozilla Firefox
  (and then switch off/remove the Windows internet browser). Unfortunately,
  this procedure has to be followed for each individual user
- Make sure that Windows is up-to-date
- Securityg: switch off anti-virus programmes during installation and
  after completion, check whether switching on the anti-virus program does
  not interfere with OpenVPN or other HiSPARC software.

VERY IMPORTANT: there should be NO user/administrator accounts with the name:

- hisparc
- admhisparc

These user names are reserved and will automatically be generated by the HiSPARC installer

Modify the setting in the bios of the PC so that the PC will automatically re-start after power failure; it will then
automatically re-launch the HiSPARC software (helpful when power failure occurs during weekends or holiday periods)

Place the zip-file with the certificates at the desktop (donot unzip the file!)

- launch the installer (double click)

- Enter:
  - Station number
  - Password (this password is required to get access to the central
    database. Changing this password prior to consulting HiSPARC
   (beheer@nikhef.nl) will result in data failing to stored in the database.
  - Select the certificate (DONOT unzip the certificate-file!)

Subsequent panels:
  - Select only those 'sensors' that are really part of YOUR setup (cosmic
    rays/weather station/lightning detector). Additional sensors can always
    be added at a later stage...

It may happen that during installation a screen pops up requesting your permission to get access are install a part.
Please allow the program to make these modifications!

Installation may take some time. At about 80% of the progress bar, there is a large installation in the background that stops
the progress bar from extending. This may also occur towards end of the installation procedure.

The installation completes with a reboot of the PC. After reboot, the system will automatically login as user 'hisparc'. if
the software installation was successful, next, the HiSPARC software will start automatically. The password for user hisparc reads:

 !Usr4hisp

This account does NOT have administrator rights and shoudl stay 'open' ALL THE TIME!

---> the user name 'hisparc' should NOT be changed!
---> the password for user 'hisparc' (!Usr4hisp) should NOT be changed!
---> the user name 'admhisparc' should not be changed!
---> the password for user 'admhisparc' should NOT be changed!
     (admhisparc is an administor account via which we can provide assistance
     and updates. It is accessed via a secure connection)!

In some cases, after starting the HiSPARC software the first time, a panel pops up again requesting permission to modify
one or more settings. Please allow these modifications (note you need administrator rights here!).

Now try to reach the HiSPARC electronics (and sometimes Windows will try to update the USB drivers for the unit - this may
take some time and often requires a restart of the PC). This, in practice, depends on the PC's hardware architecture.

Next, after obtaining a connection to the electronics, check the GPS settings and others; consult: (these instructions are,
unfortunately, - not yet - completely up-to-date, but will be self-guiding)

http://docs.hisparc.nl/station-software/doc/index.html

Instructions are also availbale in pdf format (keep a paper copy next to the PC):

http://docs.hisparc.nl/station-software/doc/HiSPARCsoftware.pdf

Important! Ensure that the firewall at the location (not the PC!) accepts traffic from OpenVPN and that port 443 is open for
communication (only) to the outside world.

Adjust the Windows update settings in such a way that the number of reboots of the system is limited in time. This may
also prevent problems when it turns out that an update obscures the HiSPARC software (yes thank you microsoft!).
One can then always anticipate to remove an update or go back to a previous Windows installation configuration.

Problems or questions, first see:

http://docs.hisparc.nl/maintenance/index.html

or contact us via:

beheer@hisparc.nl

Keep (plastic A4 folder) this documnent next to the HiSPARC pc/set-up)

